---
layout: post
title:  "The Bun"
tag: garden
tag: writing
---

When I first saw the bun\
I thought it'd be fun:\
A cute little friend for my pupper.\
They will frolic and play\
Until the sun's last ray\
And they both head back for supper.

It was a beautiful dream\
A hypothetical scheme\
Based on a misguided hope:\
That the course of this life\
Is free of violent strife\
And follows a fantasy trope.

For my dog tries to slay\
When he sees his prey,\
Ever the alert household guard.\
While the rabbit, voracious,\
Increasingly audacious,\
Consumes all things green in the yard.

Therefore my mentality\
Meets the terms of reality:\
An all-out cottontail war.\
I tighten my belt,\
Check the cards I've been dealt,\
Prepare the board with a 0-0 score.

One point for the bunny\
(Who thinks she's being funny)\
Starting out with a blitz.\
With pleasure she'll seize\
A large chunk of the peas\
Leaving a trail of nibbled bits.

One point for me\
As I install (with glee)\
A fine fence made of wire\
To protect my greens\
By any possible means.\
Now the rabbit will definitely perspire!

Another point for the critter\
Who's never a quitter\
And just needs some food to chew\
She shimmies beneath\
My protective wreath\
To snack on the vegetables anew.

Next a point for the biped:\
The rabbit, misled,\
Noshes the tip of a chile.\
With a tiny bleat\
She feels all the heat\
And retreats, looking really quite silly.

We battle it out\
Each trying for a rout\
Outwitting each other's brains.\
Until one morning\
Without any warning\
I find the bunny's fluffy remains.

What happened to her?\
Why does she no longer stir?\
How did my enemy fall?\
I'll never know\
What did in my foe -\
A toxin, a contagion, a brawl?

I feel contradictory\
About my final victory:\
Happy, sad, and unglued.\
Despite all the pain\
That she caused, sun and rain,\
She was only searching for food.

My malaise lasts until\
I spy, eating my dill,\
A small furry mouth - another?!\
I know that she's dead\
But I recognize that head:\
It's the bunny's much younger brother.
